# Class : fs.Stats

An `fs.Stats` object provides information about a file. Information of a file can be :

- Size of the file.
- At what time file was created i.e birth time of the file
- What is the latest accessed time of the file?
- At what time file is modified and much more.

The functionality provided by fs.Stats can also be used to check whether the object at the given path is a file or a directory.

## How to get the object of  fs.Stats Class?

Object of `fs.Stats` can be fetched using **fs.stat()**, **fs.statSync()**, **fs.lstat()**, **fs.lstatSync()**, **fs.fdstat()**, **fs.fdstatSync()**.

We will study fs.stat() and fs.statSync() in this module and rest will be studied in Advance Course.

## What does the object of fs.Stats class contain?

fs.Stats object contains below **properties** :

```js
// below object is stored in variable named stats
Stats {
  dev: 2114,
  ino: 48064969,
  mode: 33188,
  nlink: 1,
  uid: 85,
  gid: 100,
  rdev: 0,
  size: 527,
  blksize: 4096,
  blocks: 8,
  atimeMs: 1318289051000.1,
  mtimeMs: 1318289051000.1,
  ctimeMs: 1318289051000.1,
  birthtimeMs: 1318289051000.1,
  atime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
  mtime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
  ctime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT,
  birthtime: Mon, 10 Oct 2011 23:24:11 GMT }
```

Important properties are :

Note: Here **stats** are the variable that contains fs.Stats object.

- *stats.size* : The size of the file in bytes.

- *stats.atimeMs* : The timestamp indicating the last time this file was accessed expressed in milliseconds.

- *stats.mtimeMs* : The timestamp indicating the last time this file was modified expressed in milliseconds.

- *stats.birthtimeMs* : The timestamp indicating the creation time of this file expressed in milliseconds.

- *stats.atime* : The timestamp indicating the last time this file was accessed.

- *stats.mtime* : The timestamp indicating the last time this file was modified.

- *stats.birthtime* : The timestamp indicating the creation time of this file.

### fs.Stats object contain following Functions :

- **stats.isFile()** : This function returns a boolean value i.e. true or false.
  Return true if the `stats` object represents a File else it will return false.

- **stats.isDirectory()** : This function also returns a boolean value.
  Return true if the `stats` object represents a Directory of File system.